fix quantum
Syntax:
fix ID group-ID quantum keyword values 
ID, group-ID are documented in fix command
poems = style name of this fix command
keyword = group or file or molecule
  method values = pimd or nmpimd or cmd
  fmass values = real number for scaling factor of mass
  sp values = real number for scaling factor of plank constant
  temp values = real number for temperature in unit K
  nhc values = N number of chains in Nose-Hoover chain thermostat
Examples:
fix 1 all quantum method nmpimd fmass 1.0 sp 2.0 temp 300.0 nhc 4
Description:

This command conducts quantum molecular dynamics simulations based on
the Feynman path integral to include effects of tunneling and
zero-point motion. In this formalism, the isomorphism of the quantum
partition function of the original system and a classical partition
function of a ring-polymer system is exploited to efficiently sample
configurations from the canonical ensemble. [Ref. 1, Chapter 7]

The interested user is referred to any of the numerous references on
this methodology, but briefly, each quantum particle in a path
integral simulation is represented by a ring-polymer of P quasi-beads,
labeled from 1 to P. During the simulation, each quasi-bead interacts
with beads on the other ring-polymers with the same imaginary time
index (the second part of the effective potential above). The
quasi-beads also interact with the two neighboring quasi-beads through
the spring potential in imaginary-time space (first term in effective
potential). To sample the canonical ensemble, the Nose-Hoover massive
chain thermostat is applied. [Ref. 2] With this massive chain
algorithm, a chain of NH thermostats is coupled to each degree of
freedom for each quasi-bead. The keyword temp sets the target
temperature for the system and the keyword nhc sets the number of
thermostats in each chain. For example, if one simulated a system of N
particles with P beads in each ring-polymer, the total number of NH
thermostats equals 3 x N x P x nhc.

The selection of the bead’s mass (referred to as the fictitious mass)
is arbitrary according to the formula. A common choice is to use mi =
m/P, which results in the mass of the ring-polymer being equal to the
real quantum particle. It can be difficult to efficiently integrate
the equations of motion for the stiff harmonic interactions in the
ring polymers. A useful approach to resolve this is integrating the
equations of motion in a normal mode representation, which here is
referred to as Normal Mode Path-Integral Molecular Dynamics
(NMPIMD). [Ref. 3] In NMPIMD, the NH chains are attached to each
normal mode of the ring-polymer and the fictitious mass of each mode
is chosen to be mk =, where is the eigen-value the k-th normal mode
for k>0. The mode of k=0, referred to as the zero-frequency mode or
centroid, corresponds to overall translation of the ring-polymer and
is assigned the mass of the real particle. Motion of the centroid can
be effectively uncoupled from the other normal modes by scaling the
fictitious masses to achieve a partial adiabatic separation. In this
Centroid Molecular Dynamics (CMD) approximation [Ref. 4], the
time-evolution (and resulting dynamics) of the quantum particles can
be used to obtain centroid time correlation functions, which can be
further used to obtain the true quantum correlation function for the
original system. The keyword method is used to indicate the approach
PIMD, NMPIMD or CMD. The CMD method also uses normal modes to evolve
the system except only the k>0 modes are thermostatted, not the
centroid degrees of freedom. The keyword fmass is used as a further
scaling factor for the fictitious masses of beads, which can be used
for the Partial Adiabatic CMD [Ref. 5], or to be set as P, which
results in the fictitious masses to be equal to the real particle
masses. The last keyword sp is a scaling factor for Plank’s constant,
which can be useful for debugging or other purposes. The default value
of 1.0 is appropriate for most situations.  The PIMD algorithm in
LAMMPS is implemented as a hyper-parallel scheme [Ref. 6] and use of
this fix command requires use of the multi-partition feature in
LAMMPS, where each quasi-particle system is calculated on a separate
partition of processors. For a quantum system that is discretized into
32 imaginary time slices (32 beads in a ring-polymer), 32 partitions
are required to run the simulation. Below is an example of running a
PIMD simulation with M quasi-beads in each ring polymer using N
MPI-tasks for the domain-decomposition on each partition.  mpirun –np
P lmp_mpi –partition MxN –in script where, P = M x N.

In the LAMMPS input script, it is very useful to define a uloop type
variable such as, variable ibead uloop M pad where M is the number of
quasi-beads (partitions) used in the calculation. The uloop variable
can then be used to manage I/O related tasks for each of the
partitions, such as read_data system_${ibead}.restart dump dcd all dcd
10 system_${ibead}.dcd restart 10 system_${ibead}.restart1
system_${ibead}.restart2

Restrictions:

To run PIMD simulations users must install the package
USER-QUANTUM. Users must use the multi-partition feature of LAMMPS and
the number of partitions needs to be consistent with the uloop
variable defined for the ring-polymer model. Meanwhile, USER-QUANTUM
is not compatible with any other modules that use the multi-partition
feature.  The “quantum” fix-object already contains a complete
velocity-verlet integrator combined with NH massive chain thermostat,
so users shouldn’t use any other integration fix.  The PIMD simulation
can be started with a single DATA file through the command
“read_data”, however, all the quasi-beads would then have identical
positions and velocities, resulting in identical trajectories for all
quasi-beads. To avoid this, users can simply initial a new set of
velocities with random number seeds defined by the uloop variable.
velocity all create 300.0 1234${ibead} rot yes dist gaussian

The keyword defaults are method=pimd, fmass=1.0, sp=1.0, temp=300.0,
nhc=2.

:line

1. Feynman, R. P. and Hibbs, A. R. (1965). Quantum Mechanics and Path Integrals. New York: McGraw-Hill. (PIMD)

2. Tuckerman, M. E., Berne, B. J., J. Chem. Phys. 99, 2796. (Nose-Hoove)

3. Cao, J, Berne, B. J., J. Chem. Phys. 99, 2902  (NMPIMD)

4. Cao, J.; Voth, G. A. , J. Chem. Phys. 100, 5093 (CMD)

5. Hone T. D., Rossky P. J., Voth G. A.., J. Chem. Phys. , 124, 154103. (PACMD)

6. Calhoun, A., Pavese, M., Voth, G. A., Chem. Phys. Let., 262, 415

